# _Conforma_ Server build, versioning, and install using Docker

## Prep

- Add token to githubtoken.txt (for downloading expression-evaluator)
  - requires token that has read access to packages on server repo
  - Trobleshoting error 403 Unauthorised when running `yarn install` [Source](https://docs.github.com/en/packages/working-with-a-github-packages-registry/working-with-the-npm-registry#authenticating-with-a-personal-access-token):
    - Run `npm login --scope=@openmsupply --registry=https://npm.pkg.github.com`
    - Then enter your github registration `username`, `passowrd` (token) and `email`
- Ensure your back-end `.env` has a variable called `FRONT_END_PATH` with the _full_ path to the front-end repo on your local system.  
  e.g. `FRONT_END_PATH='/Users/<username>/GitHub/conforma/application-manager-web-app/'`
- Ensure your local Docker installation is logged in with the **msupplyfoundation** account (Password in Bitwarden)
- Ensure your docker Engine running locally to build a new image
- Yarn should be in the latest v1. i.e: `1.22.18` to correctly use `yarn release`
- If anything goes wrong during the release process, you can revert with the following list of commands:
  - `git reset --hard HEAD~1` (to revert release bump)
  - `git tag -d <tag-name(s)>` (for local tags)
  - `git push --delete origin <tag-name(s)>` (for remote tags)
  - You will need to do the same on `application-manager-web-app` repo...

## Bump the version and generate a tag.

Example: `yarn release` from develop to generate Release-candidade
Or `arn release --minor` from `main` to generate a Minor release.

- The `version` field in `package.json` is the source of truth for the current version number. Increases to version numbers should be done according to [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/), including "pre-release" versions (for testing purposes, for example).
- Bump the version and create a tag by running the script `yarn release <version-type>`, where `version-type` is on of "--major", "--minor", "--patch", "--prerelease", "--preminor", "--premajor", "--prepatch". ("--pre-release" is the default if not specified.) (See [https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/version](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/version) for version type explanation)
- This will also apply the new version number to the front-end (on whatever branch is currently checked out, so it should normally be `develop` or `main`). The tag is auto-generated by the `yarn version` command (run as part of this release script), and is just `v<version-num>` (e.g. `v0.1.5-2`)
- Note: it is not necessary to create a "release" on Github for each tag unless we need to make a particular version publicly downloadable, but one can easily be created based on the current tag/version on Github if required.
- If you make a mistake and need to delete tags, the commands are:
  - `git tag -d <tag-name(s)>` (for local tags)
  - `git push --delete origin <tag-name(s)>` (for remote tags)

## Build (and upload to Docker hub)

`yarn dockerise <tag-or-branch-name> [push]`

Example:  
`yarn dockerise v0.1.5 push`

(If you don't specify any parameters, it will build the current `develop` branch.)

**Note** that the previous `yarn release` script will offer to start this build process automatically with the tag you've just created.

One caveat -- if building from a branch, the branch name cannot have a `#` character in it, like we normally name our branches.

### Login to docker

It should take a while to run and will build a local Docker image. The optional parameter `push` specifies if the script should automatically push the created image to the **msupplyfoundation** [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) account. If you are logged to a different acount you need to `docker logout` and then `docker login` to your local Docker installation is logged in with the **msupplyfoundation** account (Password in Bitwarden).

### Docker image tag

The build process will create a local image with a tag of the form:
`build-<releaseTag>_<date>_pg-<version>_node-<version>`

_To see what's going on under the hood when this command is run, please inspect the file `/docker/dockerise.sh`_

### Manually pushing to dockerhub

If you don't auto-push the image as part of the build process, you can do so manually by running: `docker push <full image name>`, where `<full-image-name>` includes the account name, repo name ("conforma-demo") and tag.

Example:  
`docker push msupplyfoundation/conforma-demo:build-B-1.0.13_2021-12-08_pg-12_node-14`

## Test locally

When the build (above) completes, it should print a command for running the new image locally, which you can copy and paste. It will be something like:

`yarn docker_run msupplyfoundation/conforma-demo:build-B-1.0.13_2021-12-08_pg-12_node-14`

You'll need to make sure you have the SMTP_PASSWORD in your local `.env` file.

_To see the actual Docker commands that are constructued, please inspect the file `/docker/run.sh`_

## Log in to the demo server with ssh

- Get key file from Bitwarden (openstack-irims-demo-keypair) and save locally (e.g. in `~/Documents/private/conformakey.pem`)
- SSH login to server:
  ```bash
  export KEY_LOC='/Users/<you>/Documents/private/conformakey.pem' (or your local location)
  sudo ssh -i $KEY_LOC ubuntu@irims-demo.msupply.org
  ```
- Alternativelly login to an specific country server
- View commit hashes of currently running images:  
  `sudo docker container ls`
- Stop all instances:  
  `sudo docker stop <hashes… >`
- Pull image from docker hub:  
  `sudo docker pull <full-image-name>`
  Example: `sudo docker pull msupplyfoundation/conforma-demo:build-B-1.0.13_2021-12-08_pg-12_node-14`
- Run image:  
  `sudo docker run -dti -p 8000:3000 -e 'SMTP_PASSWORD=<password>' -e 'WEB_HOST=<host-domain>' -e 'JWT_SECRET=<some-random-secret>' --name conforma-demo-on-8000 <full-image-name>`  
   This will launch one instance. To launch other instances in their own container, run the same command, but change:

  - name
  - port 8000
  - WEB_HOST url
  - JWT_SECRET (this can be any random string, but should be a decent length, say > 24 alphanumeric characters. There's no need to record this key anywhere, as it can change anytime -- that just means existing JWTs become invalid, so users will need to re-login)
    The system will be launched with “core_snapshot” data. Upload and run a new snapshot as required

## JUMP to section for a basic server upgrade

- [docker-compose](#docker-compose)

## Move files/folder to/from instance

Follow this process whenever the docker-compose script is updated (`./docker/demo_server/docker-compose.yml`)

### Copy script folder demo server scripts

**Note**: You are sending local changes to the server

```bash
cd application-manager-server/docker
scp -r -i $KEY_LOC ./demo_server ubuntu@irims-demo.msupply.org:/home/ubuntu/
```

## Save backup of nginx config from demo server to local

**Note**: These steps doesn't seem required for a sever upgrade

```bash
cd application-manager-server/docker
scp -i $KEY_LOC ubuntu@irims-demo.msupply.org:/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default ./demo_server/nginx_config
```

## Upload nginx config back to demo server

### Option 1: Multi-instances server

**Note** The configuration of nginx uses the certificate of irims-demo.msupply.org domain (following other steps of this setup) if needed for a new server, replace with new domain.

```bash
# cannot directly replace default config, need to do it as sudo, so from within docker instance
sudo mv demo_server/nginx_config/default /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/
```

### Option 2: Single-instance server

**Note**: First you need to have a domain configured and have been through the steps to Install SSL Certificate with certbot as described in the [New server instance guide](New-Server-Instance.md)

The file is configured to forward incoming requests to port 50000 to internal port 80000 for **Conforma** App and requests to port 50001 to internal port 80001 for **Grafana** both running as docker containers.

You will need to open the file in `demo_server/nginx_config_single/default` and edit where is showing as `<host-domain>` replacing with the actual domain name (as configured in the SSL certificate).

```bash
sudo mv demo_server/nginx_config_single/default /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/
```

## NGINX

Everything should be configured via `default` config. Cert bot was installed and should auto update certs (https://certbot.eff.org/lets-encrypt/ubuntubionic-nginx).

After changing config as per above, run

`sudo service nginx restart`

Logs are in `/var/log/nginx`

## docker-compose

docker-compose will complain if directories are not present, create them if needed (they will persist when restarting image, even if `docker-compose down` was run) - use `docker compose down` alternativelly.

**Note**: You just need to have 1 setup (80000 and 80001) if configuring a single-instance server

```bash
mkdir conforma_on_port_8000 \
  conforma_on_port_8000/postgres \
  conforma_on_port_8000/snapshots \
  conforma_on_port_8000/files \
  conforma_on_port_8000/localisation \
  conforma_on_port_8000/preferences

mkdir grafana_on_port_8001
# grafana user has to own the local directory that's mounted to volume
# https://community.grafana.com/t/new-docker-install-with-persistent-storage-permission-problem/10896/2
sudo chown 472 grafana_on_port_8001

mkdir conforma_on_port_8002 \
  conforma_on_port_8002/postgres \
  conforma_on_port_8002/snapshots \
  conforma_on_port_8002/files \
  conforma_on_port_8002/localisation \
  conforma_on_port_8002/preferences

mkdir grafana_on_port_8003
sudo chown 472 grafana_on_port_8003

mkdir conforma_on_port_8004 \
  conforma_on_port_8004/postgres \
  conforma_on_port_8004/snapshots \
  conforma_on_port_8004/files \
  conforma_on_port_8004/localisation \
  conforma_on_port_8004/preferences

mkdir grafana_on_port_8005
sudo chown 472 grafana_on_port_8005

mkdir conforma_on_port_8006 \
  conforma_on_port_8006/postgres \
  conforma_on_port_8006/snapshots \
  conforma_on_port_8006/files \
  conforma_on_port_8006/localisation \
  conforma_on_port_8006/preferences

mkdir grafana_on_port_8007
sudo chown 472 grafana_on_port_8007

mkdir conforma_on_port_8008 \
  conforma_on_port_8008/postgres \
  conforma_on_port_8008/snapshots \
  conforma_on_port_8008/files \
  conforma_on_port_8008/localisation \
  conforma_on_port_8008/preferences

mkdir grafana_on_port_8009
sudo chown 472 grafana_on_port_8009
```

### Launching all

```bash
export TAG='build-B-1.0.13_2021-12-08_pg-12_node-14'
export SMTP_SECRET='add_smtp_secret_here'
export WEB_URL='https://irims-demo.msupply.org:<replace port>'
export JWT_SECRET='random private key'

**Note**: You just need to have first option running if single-instance. Also remember to replace the domain of the server accordingly on WEB_URL.

# -d is for detached, if you want to see all output then start without -d
PORT_APP=8000 PORT_DASH=8001 sudo -E docker-compose --project-name 'conforma-on-8000' up -d

# currently running with snapshot demo-2021-08-27
PORT_APP=8002 PORT_DASH=8003 sudo -E docker-compose --project-name 'conforma-on-8002' up -d

# currently running with basic_snapshot
PORT_APP=8004 PORT_DASH=8005 sudo -E docker-compose --project-name 'conforma-on-8004' up -d
PORT_APP=8006 PORT_DASH=8007 sudo -E docker-compose --project-name 'conforma-on-8006' up -d
PORT_APP=8008 PORT_DASH=8009 sudo -E docker-compose --project-name 'conforma-on-8008' up -d
```

### View logs

```bash
# don't need bash inside contiainer for this
sudo docker exec -ti conforma-on-8000_app_1 cat /var/log/application_manager/server.log
sudo docker exec -ti conforma-on-8000_app_1 cat /var/log/application_manager/graphile.log
```

## To restart an instance

In case you don't want to use the existing database previously set on that instance, you need to stop and remove the resouces by doing this:

- Run `sudo docker stop <name>`
  - name from above (plus `_app_1` e.g.: `conforma-on-8000_app_1`)
  - or can use container id. e.g.: `sudo docker stop 030f8b82814b`
- Remove container: `sudo docker rm <name>` or remove the folder on `demo_server` (e.g `sudo rm -rf app_postgres_on_port_8000`)

- Now re-run the instance changing the ports accordingly to the instance you need to re-launch:
  `PORT_APP=8000 PORT_DASH=8001 sudo -E docker-compose --project-name 'conforma-on-8000' up -d`
- Alternativelly some servers configuration will need to use `docker compose` instead:
  `PORT_APP=8000 PORT_DASH=8001 sudo -E docker compose --project-name 'conforma-on-8000' up -d`

Note: this resets the container to initial state, including database reset. If you want to preserve existing data, you’ll need to take a snapshot first, then reload after restart.

### Other image/container commands

- List local images

`sudo docker images`

- Remove all containers

`sudo docker rm $(sudo docker ps -a -q)`

- Remove all images

`sudo docker rmi -f $(sudo docker images -a -q)`

- Remove all images

`sudo docker volume prune`

### Access command line within container:

You can access the command line of a particular container instance with the following:

`sudo docker exec -ti <name-or-container-id> /bin/bash`

From there the following commands might be useful:

- view environment variables: `printenv`
- check the server log: `tail -n 100 /var/log/application_manager/server.log`
